---
toc: true
layout: post
description: This blog explains both benefits and drawbacks of computing today (5.1), as well as the digital divide in computing today (5.2).
categories: [extra]
title: Unit 5.1 and 5.2 Blog
image: /images/college-board-logo.png
comments: true
---


# Overview of This Blog

This week, we all had a class discussion about some of the benefits and harmful effects of computing as well as the digital divide in the land of computing. This blog includes some notes from our class discussion as well as some benefits and drawbacks of things that involve computing.


# 5.1

## 5.1: Class Discussion

- Drones Discussion
    - Talked about some of the benefits of drones
        - Can travel far distances
        - Can help you see something from far away
        - Allows people to record videos/take pictures
    - Discussed some harmful effects of drones
        - A drone may malfunction/not work as intended, which can hurt someone
        - Not everybody may be comfortable with drones flying around
        - Can be used for malicious purposes
- ChatGPT Discussion
    - Benefits of ChatGPT
        - Can help you with specific questions 
        - Can help you write essays, emails, code, etc. (if not used for academic purposes)
    - Drawbacks of ChatGPT
        - People (especially students in school) can use it to cheat
        - May provide inaccurate information about a certain topic
        - It is not like Google. That is, it only gets its knowledge from certain databases/sources (could be biased and therefore less accurate)
    - Additional Notes
        - ChatGPT will become a fiercer competitor of Google over time
        - As ChatGPT becomes more advanced and expands its capabilities, less people will use Google
- Video Games/Social Media/Other Forms of Technology
    - Video Games
        - Allows players to make friends online
        - Helps relieve stress
        - Can be very addictive, can cause people to forget their real life
    - Social Media
        - People can speak out about their opinion on certain matters
        - Without social media, some people would not have friends if they met many of them online
        - Similar to video games, social media can be very addictive
    - Forms of Technology (laptops, cell phones, etc.)
        - Without laptops or cell phones, it can be difficult to complete daily tasks that require technology, such as homework, studying, researching online, etc.
        - Sometimes, the teacher will ask students to have their laptops or phones out, so if one does not have either of these, it will be difficult for them to learn in class

## 5.1: Benefits and Drawbacks of Computing

After our class discussion, we were asked to think of our own forms of computing (not discussed), with each one including some of their benefits and drawbacks. Three things that require and involve computing that I thought of were autonomous (self-driving) cars, data collection/analysis, and medical devices.

(1) Autonomous (Self-Driving) Cars

- Benefits 

    - Improves road safety: Self-driving cars are equipped with advanced technologies that allow the car to make safe driving decisions in accordance to the current situation, which reduces the likelihood of accidents typically caused by human error.
    - More free time for passengers: Since the car is driving itself, the people inside will no longer have to worry about taking the regular precautions of driving (eyes on the road, no distractions, etc.). This allows them to spend more time on other things, such as working, relaxing, or talking to other passengers.
    - Lower fuel consumption/less emissions into the atmosphere: Since these cars are equipped with advanced technology, they can be programmed to maximize fuel efficiency and minimize emissions released into the air, as they have the ability to make precise, efficient driving decisions.

- Drawbacks

    - More expensive/costly: Although self-driving cars provide many benefits to its consumers, it costs much more compared to regular cars, which might make people who are interested have less of an incentive to buy something that is more expensive.
    - Security risks: Since self-driving cars is built of a lot of advanced technology and is computer programmed, this makes them more vulnerable to hacking and cyber attacks, which could compromise the car's system and put the passengers inside at risk. 
    - Software malfunctions: As self-driving cars rely on advanced technologies and software, some of these technologies may malfunction or not work as intended, which can lead to accidents or other problems on the road, thus putting the passengers' lives at risk.

(2) Data Collection/Analysis

- Benefits
    - Improved accuracy: Computers can be very useful when it comes to collecting/analyzing data, as they can process large amounts of data quickly and accurately, reducing the risk of human error that can lead to inaccurate conclusions.
    - Increased scalability: Since computing can handle large amounts of data from multiple forces, this allows organizations who use computing to scale their data collection and analysis as needed.
    - Automated data collection/analysis: Computers have the ability to automate the data collection, analysis, and reporting process, which reduces the need for manual data entry and analysis, which is much more vulnerable to human error (ex. inputting a data value wrong, switching the results of two experiments, etc.)

- Drawbacks
    - Privacy risks: Although computers can process large amounts of data quickly and accurately, this is what raises privacy concerns, as all of that data could be sensitive, personal information that is collected, stored, and analyzed.
    - Bias: With computers, some of the algorithms used for data collection and analysis can be biased or in favor of one thing, which may not be perceived as a set of very credible results to users seeking unbiased results.
    - Too much reliance on technology: The more that organizations rely on computing for data collection, the more that they will depend on it for the future. This can lead to them not being able to do their jobs without it, which can make the organization fall apart.

(3) Medical Devices/Equipment

- Benefits
    - Improved accuracy: Medical devices and computing technologies can improve the accuracy of diagnoses and treatments by providing more accurate data and reducing the risk of human error. Thus, computing in terms of medical devices leads to better patient outcomes and improved quality of care.
    - Data management: Medical devices combined with computing technologies can help manage and store large amounts of patient data, improving the efficiency of data analysis and decision-making. This leads to an overall better use and allocation of resources.
    - Personalized medicine: Medical devices and computing technologies can support the development of personalized medicine, which tailors treatments to individual patients based on their unique needs. This leads to an improved approach of treating patients and a better understanding of what they are in need of.

- Drawbacks
    - Complexity: Medical devices and computing technologies can be difficult to understand for some people, requiring specialized skills and training to use and maintain. This can result in difficulties in use and maintenance, and can also make it more difficult for healthcare providers to integrate the technology into their existing systems.
    - Ethics: The use of medical devices and computing technologies can raise ethical dilemmas, such as privacy and the use of artificial intelligence (A.I.) in medical decision-making. 
    - Human error: Despite technological advances, human error can still occur during data entry, analysis, and interpretation, leading to incorrect diagnoses and treatments. Even though computing can help with making the process of treating and diagnosing patients much more efficient, doctors should still be trained to know what they are doing should anything involving human error occur.

(4) Our Project (Theee Arcade)

- Benefits
    - Entertaining: This can help the user pass time if they are bored or have nothing to do.
    - Helps with stress: This game can help relieve stress for the user if they are stressing about something, such as school work or other issues
    - More friends: Since we plan on implementing a leader board into our project, the user can talk or chat with fellow players and make friends with them.

- Drawbacks
    - Distracting: Although our project can be used to relieve stress and help the user pass time,, it can also be very distracting and cause them to forget about their real life. 
    - Security concerns: As we will have a login and sign up page for our project, the user risks their privacy/security by providing the boxes their name,email, etc. and also by chatting with other users online that they don't know or have never seen in person.
    - Addictive: Although this overlaps with distracting, the user could end up playing our games for several hours throughout the day that they end up losing time to sleep or do other daily tasks. 


## 5.1: Dopamine Question

After reading the information provided about Anthony Rosner, who was very addicted to games, and from personal experience, the dopamine issue is definitely a real thing that can happen to all of us. Some people get distracted by different things, such as video games, social media, and music, just to name a few. For example, whenever I listen to music, I always find that it energizes me and makes me feel more motivated to complete my work. At the same time, however, I can get distracted from the music, as it always makes me want to get up and move around, which wastes valuable time that could have been spent completing homework or studying. Because I end up wasting time, this forces me to stay up late to complete all of my assignments/study, which gives me less time to sleep and makes me feel tired during the day. Another thing that I have noticed distracts me is that whenever I start working on something right after watching a show or video, my brain cannot stop thinking about it, which makes me less concentrated on the work in front of me, which also leads to many of the same things that listening to music causes for me. Overall, from my many personal experiences, the dopamine issues are definitely real and can cause people to lose focus on what they are supposed to do. 

## 5.1: Internet Blockers + Admin Passwords Question

One pro of internet blockers is that it protects students at school from dangerous websites, which will prevent them from risking the security of their device. Another pro of internet blockers at school is that it protects student from viewing inappropriate content or something else that can be distracting, which allows the students to focus more on their learning in class. While internet blockers have their positives, they also have their negatives. One con of internet blockers is that they sometimes block websites that can actually help students learn, especially in fun ways, which can cause the students to feel bored when in class. Another con of internet blockers is that they do not give students the opportunity to learn how to use the Internet responsibly and safely, which is important especially in a field like computer science. 


One pro of the lack of admin passwords at school lab machines is that it allows the admin to login easily without having to type anything in. One con, however, is that by not having a password, the admins put themselves at risk for hacking or having their account hijacked, which can jeopardize the entire school administration system. For the lack of admin passwords, the cons probably outweigh the pros, as there are many security risks associated with it. 

## 5.1: Personal Takeaways/Reflection

I learned a lot from the class discussion, listing benefits and drawbacks and computing, and also talking about dopamine issues. I liked the idea of the class discussion, as I was able to hear from many people about their ideas and perspectives on the world of computing. As I was listing off some of the benefits and drawbacks of computing, I had to do some research online to find out more about them, and I was astonished by what I was looking at. It was amazing to me how much of what we do relies on technology, which can be somewhat concerning, as if we one day end up in a situation where we cannot use technology, many people will not be able to do much because of how much they depended on computing to complete their daily tasks. I also feel that this lesson allowed me to share my personal experiences and helped me realize what I can do to improve my habits and get less distracted on technology, which I (along with MANY people) rely on so much in my daily life.

# 5.2

## 5.2: Class Discussion (The Digital Divide in Computing)

- Discussion
    - Not everyone has access to forms of technology (laptops, tablets, cell phones, etc.)
        - Some people cannot afford it
        - Some people may live in certain countries who impose certain restrictions or restraints on certain technology (ex. divide between what is allowed in China and what is allowed in America)
        - Some may live in areas or countries that have little access to technology
    - Factors for why not everybody uses technology includes...
        - Some may not have access to the latest update on their laptop, cellphone, etc., so their knowledge of technology may be more limited
        - Some may choose not to for religious reasons (ex. Amish)


## 5.2: Questions

(1) How does someone empower themselves in a digital world?

One can empower themselves in a digital world by applying their creativity and realizing that the sky is the limit when it comes to the digital world. When someone is more creative, they will have more of an incentive to experiment and play with a lot of things, and in that experimentation, they will likely find something that fascinates or excites them. Thus, when someone motivates themselves to be creative, especially in the digital world, they will be able to discover things that they had no idea about and will feel more empowered to maybe pursue a career in the digital world. For example, from personal experience, I feel a lot more empowered in the world of computer science than I did several months ago. When I look back at all of the work that I have done for this class, I realize that I was able to accomplish that because of how much I played/experimented with the sample programs provided. When I played around with certain parts of the code segments and changed or even rearranged certain lines around, I was able to look at results that I did not even know were possible, and that is what has made me much more motivated to pursue my aspirations in computer science in CSA and beyond.  


(2) How does someone that is empowered help someone that is not empowered? Describe something you could do at Del Norte HS.

One who is empowered can help someone that is not empowered by talking to the non-empowered person about how they overcame certain challenges and obstacles in their life and provide them with words of encouragement. By the empowered person telling their story, the person who is not empowered will feel inspired to accomplish the same and therefore more motivated to pursue their interests that may have previously been held back. For example, I have an older brother who is currently at UCSD (CS major!), and like me, he took a lot of AP classes in high school. Whenever I don't feel confident enough in my abilities, feel burnt out (which is always), or am worried about grades, he always tells me ways that he dealt with it when he was in my position. He would also remind me of what I have already accomplished, which is what motivates me to do the very best I can with the heavy workload I am having to endure. Something that I can do at Del Norte High School to help people feel empowered is to maybe start a club that allows students to come together and voice their concerns about anything in a safe environment. This way, there will be a sense of collaboration/working together when figuring out how to empower ourselves, which is exactly what we need.

(3) Is paper or red tape blocking digital empowerment? Are there such barriers at Del Norte? Elsewhere?

Whether or not paper or red tape is blocking digital empowerment mainly depends on the specific context. In some cases, paper can slow down our ability to adapt to changes with new technology and make it difficult for us to embrace the advancements. In other times, however, paper may be necessary to use for certain tasks to accomplish things such as maximizing efficiency and ensuring security and privacy. For Del Norte specifically, paper could be viewed as a barrier to digital empowerment, as there are certain activities that are done on paper that could be completed much more efficiently, quickly, and accurately on our computers. For example, in AP Chemistry, if we are ever doing a lab experiment, we usually have to handwrite a data table along with its necessary columns and rows for us to write down the results as we go. However, if we were given the option to complete the table on a device, we would be able to make tables that are much more neat, precise, and easy to make, as in applications such as Google Docs, we can control how many columns and rows we want and write out (type) what we want to include much faster. We would be able to keep track of data more quickly, which saves a lot of time from having to pause the experiment just to write down what we see. 

(4) What concerns do you have personally about the digital divide?  For yourself or for others.

One concern that I have about the digital divide is that as technology becomes more advanced/updated that the digital divide will continue to expand. This can cause people who may not be fortunate enough to have access technology to feel isolated or left out from those who do. As peoples' dependency on forms of technology is growing, it is possible that people who don't have technology will be viewed as outsiders or weird, which goes back to how that can cause them to feel excluded from everyone else. Overall, my concerns about the digital divide are mainly social, as I am worried that there will be many people who feel excluded or ostracized from the rest of society because they don't have access to forms of technology while everyone else does.


## 5.2: Personal Takeaways/Reflection

This lesson taught me a lot about how many people around the world have their own reasons for not using technology. Some people may not use technology  because they live in an area where it is not accessible, while others may not use it to not go against their religious beliefs. Some people may not have technology simply because they cannot afford it. I also felt that this was another opportunity for me to discuss my personal experiences, which made the lesson a lot more interactive and overall more relatable for me. I hope that when I look back on this blog to study for the AP exam that my answers for both this and 5.1 will serve as useful study tools to both myself and others who look at my blog. 

# Overall Reflection

I thought that both lessons were great learning experiences for me, as I was able to discuss these concepts with other students, share some of my personal experiences and relate that to what we are talking about, and also allow me to give my opinion on some of the most debateable topics in the world, including the benefits/drawbacks of computing and the digital divide in the world of computing. I am looking forward to any more of these lessons that we will have and hope that they too will serve as a memorable, interactive learning experience for me and even other students in this class. 



